docs: update writing hooks (#52452)
spack/spack: lib/spack/docs/developer_guide.rst

Reviewer: I think this is now:
```suggestion
   pre_install = _HookRunner("pre_install")
   post_install = _HookRunner("post_install")
```
?

If there is a hook that you would like and it is missing, you can propose to add a new one.

``pre_install(spec)``
"""""""""""""""""""""

A ``pre_install`` hook runs within the install subprocess, directly before installation starts.
It receives the spec as its only argument.

``post_install(spec, explicit=None)``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

A ``post_install`` hook runs within the install subprocess after installation finishes, but before the build stage is removed and the spec is registered in the database.
It receives the spec and an optional boolean indicating whether this spec is an explicit user request, or a dependency.

``pre_uninstall(spec)``
"""""""""""""""""""""""

A ``pre_uninstall`` hook runs directly before removing an installed spec.
It receives the spec as its only argument.

``post_uninstall(spec)``
""""""""""""""""""""""""

A ``post_uninstall`` hook runs after package uninstallation finishes.
It receives the spec as its only argument and is primarily used for cleaning up module files during uninstall operations.

Adding a New Hook Modules

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a New Hook Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: Maybe:
```suggestion
Adding a New Hook Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```
to distinguish it a bit more from the `Adding a Hook Type` below?

To implement a hook, create a Python module in ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/`` with functions named after the hooks you want to implement:

1. Create a module file (e.g., ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/my_hooks.py``)
2. Add functions matching the hook names:

.. code-block:: python

    # lib/spack/spack/hooks/my_hooks.py

    def pre_install(spec):
        """This runs before each package is installed."""
        print(f"About to install {spec.name}@{spec.version}")

    def post_install(spec, explicit=None):
        """This runs after each package is installed."""

>         print(f"Finished installing {spec.name}@{spec.version}")

Reviewer: I think this should be indented by 3 spaces, to have the code block be part of the list item

3. Add your module to the ``HOOK_ORDER`` list in ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/__init__.py``:

.. code-block:: python

    class _HookRunner:
        HOOK_ORDER = [
            "spack.hooks.module_file_generation",
            "spack.hooks.licensing",
            # ...
            "spack.hooks.my_hooks",  # <- Add your module here
        ]

> 

Reviewer: Similarly here

Example: Implementing a Build Notification Hook
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here's a complete example that sends notifications when builds start and finish:

.. code-block:: python

    # lib/spack/spack/hooks/build_notifications.py

    from spack.llnl.util import tty

>     import time

Reviewer: We need to update this import due to PRs that have been merged in the meanwhile:

```suggestion
    import time
    from spack.util import tty
```

Writing Hooks
-------------

Hooks in Spack provide an extension mechanism that allows code to be executed at specific points in the package lifecycle.

> They make it easy to add functionality without modifying core code.

Reviewer: Hmm, I'd say `lib/spack/spack/hooks` is "core" code

```suggestion
```

This section explains how the Spack hook system works and how to use it effectively.
When a hook point is reached in the code, the corresponding hook runner finds all hook functions with matching names in registered modules and executes them.
This allows multiple modules to respond to the same event.

Spack defines hooks by way of a module in the ``lib/spack/spack/hooks`` directory.
This module has to be registered in ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/__init__.py`` so that Spack is aware of it.
This section will cover the basic kind of hooks and how to write them.

Available Hook Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Spack provides several built-in hook points that you can implement in your own hook modules.

> If there is a hook that you would like and it is missing, you can propose to add a new one.

Reviewer: Not sure how to improve this, but the first sentence is a bit confusing. The second is probably unnecessary.

``pre_install(spec)``
"""""""""""""""""""""

A ``pre_install`` hook runs within the install subprocess, directly before installation starts.
It receives the spec as its only argument.

``post_install(spec, explicit=None)``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

A ``post_install`` hook runs within the install subprocess after installation finishes, but before the build stage is removed and the spec is registered in the database.

> It receives the spec and an optional boolean indicating whether this spec is being installed explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It receives the spec and an optional boolean indicating whether this spec is an explicit user request, or a dependency.
```

Spack defines hooks by way of a module in the ``lib/spack/spack/hooks`` directory.
This module has to be registered in ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/__init__.py`` so that Spack is aware of it.
This section will cover the basic kind of hooks and how to write them.

Available Hook Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following hooks are currently implemented to make it easy for you, the developer, to add hooks at different stages of a Spack install or similar.
If there is a hook that you would like and it is missing, you can propose to add a new one.

``pre_install(spec)``
"""""""""""""""""""""

A ``pre_install`` hook runs within the install subprocess, directly before installation starts.
It receives the spec as its only argument.

``post_install(spec, explicit=None)``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

A ``post_install`` hook runs within the install subprocess after installation finishes, but before the build stage is removed and the spec is registered in the database.
It receives the spec and an optional boolean indicating whether this spec is an explicit user request, or a dependency.

``pre_uninstall(spec)``
"""""""""""""""""""""""

> A ``pre_uninstall`` hook runs directly before installation starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ``pre_uninstall`` hook runs directly before removing an installed spec.
```

A ``pre_uninstall`` hook runs directly before installation starts.
It receives the spec as its only argument.

These hooks are currently used for cleaning up module files after uninstall.
``post_uninstall(spec)``
""""""""""""""""""""""""

A ``post_uninstall`` hook runs after package uninstallation finishes.
It receives the spec as its only argument and is primarily used for cleaning up module files during uninstall operations.

Adding a New Hook Type
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Adding a new hook type is very simple!
In ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/__init__.py``, you can simply create a new ``HookRunner`` that is named to match your new hook.
For example, let's say you want to add a new hook called ``post_log_write`` to trigger after anything is written to a logger.
You would add it as follows:
To implement a hook, create a Python module in ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/`` with functions named after the hooks you want to implement:

1. Create a module file (e.g., ``lib/spack/spack/hooks/my_hooks.py``)
2. Add functions matching the hook names:

.. code-block:: python

    # pre/post install and run by the install subprocess
    pre_install = HookRunner("pre_install")

>     post_install = HookRunner("post_install")

Reviewer: I think this part is conceptually missing. Now the docs explain how to register a new function to an existing hook, before it was also explaining how to add a new hook for developers.
